The McElroy brothers are not experts, and their advice should never be followed.
Travis insists he's a sexpert, but if there's a degree on his wall, I haven't seen it.
Also, this show isn't for kids, which I mention only so the babies out there
will know how cool they are for listening. What's up, you cool baby?
Hey everybody, welcome to My Brother, My Brother, Me, an advice show for the modern era. I'm your
oldest brother Justin McElroy. I'm your middle-est brother Travis McElroy. I'm your sweet baby
bubbykins Griffin McElroy. If you've never listened to our program before, we take your
problems and turn them alchemy-like into wisdom. I myself though am coming up on one of the
first challenges, the first major challenges of my adult life. Things have been pretty smooth,
but we're counting down to, we're about t-minus three weeks, but let's hope for like two weeks
or one week and a half. Or tomorrow. Or tomorrow. So you can party again. To me like basically never
doing anything again ever. Yeah, I mean I would be psyched to just have excuses just like chill
all the time. That's what yeah that's what dadhood is like. It's just yeah because that's what I've
heard. You have a new baby and it's just chill all the time. No, but like you do when you get like a
super big dose of that before the baby comes because it's just like you don't feel like doing
anything. Because of the nesting, I think. Yesterday I did take on probably what has been
the most, the single most horrifying step of this entire thing. It is not, you would think that
there were any number of things that would have terrified me over the past few months,
and you would be correct. Right. But you took a brisk class. Yeah, I uh. Because you're doing
that shit yourself. You're taking that shit in your own hands. DIY. There's no no embracing for
this for this baby, but I uh I did install a child safety seat yesterday. A car seat yesterday,
which I thought would be sort of a breezy way. I'm following along my parenting book,
get ready for baby book, and this week's activity was to install the child safety seat. Is the title
a like trying to get you psyched for the next baby book? Is it like get ready for this book?
It's gonna be, it's gonna be so tight. You're not prepared for the words that we've got in this one.
It's like get ready for your sick baby coming, it's coming, just dropping this year, get pumped,
get psyched. So I'm putting in the child safety seat. It is the single most terrifying. Lawyers,
I'm assuming it's lawyers, god I hope it's lawyers, have made the the actual like installation manual,
it reads like a guide on how to dispose of uh an improvised explosive device. It is terrifying.
Here is here is a literal literal section from the thing. You have to adjust the recline on the seat.
Oh okay, I want the baby to be comfortable. I'm gonna have a a smooth ride and sweet lean.
I'm yeah a nice just a nice chilled out ride. In the manual it literally says if the seat is
leaning forward too far your baby's head weight will make breathing impossible. If it's leaning
back too far then in the in case of a of a wreck then uh the the seat will not protect your child.
So basically wait does it give you an indication of like the degree to which you're trying to okay
there is an indicator on the side which measures the levelness of the the seat. If the indicator is
all blue it's safe for zero to three months. If it's all blue with literally one sixteenth of an
inch of darker blue it's safe for three to six months. Oh fuck you parents. It is literally like
a scene from Die Hard. Does it does the the the seat come with like a protractor that you have to
use um that's like this zone is full baby death guaranteed. Guaranteed test baby that you could
like try it out on just like a just a burner baby. You know just put the baby in it see how it works
the first time you're like okay see now this baby can't breathe. Glad we tried it out on this baby
before we put our baby in it. Yeah yeah there there is no safety net like that. You you it actually
says the instruction manual and and I had a a gentleman who wanted to sell me roofing service
echoed this advice. He said you know if you take that to the police station they will tell you if
you did it right or not. Is that service police provide? Apparently and I think it's just for
convenience because if you can't install the seat then they put you in jail because you're too
dumb to have a kid. That'd be some sick pre-crime shit like we are we are just going to go ahead
and toss you in here for future murder. I don't see no dark blue strip. My comfort the only comfort
I take in in this uh entire process is I've been alive for 33 years. I've seen some people okay.
I've seen some people and their parents didn't manage to kill them with their child safety seat
so I have to assume that like I can I can swing this because I know some people. There's no way
you're going to be the worst at this. Uh okay enough of this uh diversion. Enough of this clever
banter. Enough of this hilarious warm-up it's time for the main event. We've got a big show uh Eat
Pray Love author Elizabeth Gilbert and also Signature of All Things uh author Elizabeth
Gilbert is going to be joining us as a guestpert uh that's coming up uh in just a little while.
I don't think I've ever teased anything in the show and I don't know stick with us after the
commercial break. A structural issue or just like we've never had anything to tease but here you go
there it's our first ever tease uh but for now let's let's take some of these questions and turn
them into answers. I have a problem with speaking up. I frequently have to repeat myself and people
often tell me that I talk too quietly. When I increase the volume it feels like I'm yelling or
that my voice takes on an unpleasant or harsh tone. What can I do to make sure that I'm being heard
without feeling as though I'm shouting in people's faces? That's from whispering in Wisconsin.
I know that problem. No you don't know. No no no here's the thing surprising to most
while I am very loud and verbose when like telling a story or a joke or entertaining people or
ordering food at a restaurant or but here's the thing half the time I mumble out my order or half
the time if I want to ask somebody a question I don't like enunciate I say really quiet and kind
of humbly and it's either one of those two is I'm either super loud or like really awkward and quiet
and mumbly and Teresa calls me on this all the time and it's like there is no middle ground for
me. Yeah you never sound normal. Yeah no never not really. I'm surprised you have found a fair
amount of success I would say in this audio only medium. I have that microphone turned down to one
percent. Yeah and even now like even that when you said percent you're popping your plosives
you're shouting you don't even know that you're shouting right now but the people listening like
is he mad at me? This is not a fun podcast listening experience for me. Travis is basically
three quarters of the way to an SNL character. Right that's correct. I mean it looks like Chris
Catan. That's not fair Travis I'm sorry I said that. No I grew a whole beard. You got a whole
beard going on he can't grow a beard. Yeah take that Catan. Not since the fire. Just talk a little
louder you guys don't need us for these. No here's the thing no here's the thing I think there's an
I can infer a problem here and I think the problem is not that they're jumping from like
like quiet to loud it's that when he speaks at a normal volume or she speaks at a normal volume
they feel loud which I think that that point is more of a self-confidence about either your speaking
voice because you feel like it's harsh and unpleasant or you feel like you're yelling
and being boisterous I think that it comes from an inherent fear of voicing your opinions and
saying what you need. Let me help you out here your problem is that you're you're yelling from
your your head you need it where's your power a lot of people ask me that Justin where's my power?
In my vagina. Okay uh it's it's down deep in your diaphragm that's where you got to push the sound
from right now you can't see it but I've got uh several leather restraints wrapped around my
stomach to help me uh remember to always be pushing air out of my diaphragm I literally have no room
to exhale I'm waiting until after the show to exhale. Right you gotta wait to exhale. I'm waiting
to exhale. Right oh they're also there for sex stuff. There are sex stuff related adjacent they're
sex adjacent I would say yeah sex adjacent. It's amazing those two things don't have to be mutually
exclusive it can both be good for your support and for your sex stuff. This helps me talk good
in public and also the chafing does things vis-a-vis boners. You know sex stuff. That is a good
point though because you learn in theater the ability to like support and not yell like you
can project and you can be confident without like yelling to the back of the theater so I think
that's it just support yourself with air feel confident what you say. Let me uh let me let me
perform a quick demonstration. Terrific I can't wait for this. This is me speaking with my normal
voice you can hear uh all of this sound is coming from my mouth and my neck.
The shit in your neck meat that makes the sound waves. My neck meat is filtering the sound waves
out through what scientists call the the shout hole. Your your moist your moist cords are slapping
together like two fishes thrown together at a fish market. So this is just my normal
this is all with without any other support. Yeah and now I'm talking with my diaphragm you can hear
clear difference. Oh Justin I'm in the back of the theater I'm in the back of the theater and
I'm hearing every word of that. Why does your diaphragm have an accent? It's just from the sound
being pushed out. I disagree. Oh that's painful. Yeah it hurts to act. It hurts to act that's why
they pay them so much. It's not easy. That's why Liza Minnelli got out of the game for so long.
You actually sounded exactly like Liza Minnelli right there so I think there might be a little
bit of truth to what you're saying. She had to have her mouth hole completely redone. Yeah
completely burned it out. Uh y'all want a yahoo? Hit me. How about this yahoo it's in by our good
buddy Drew Davenport. Um he has a lot more um honorary titles but trying to keep this show
you know popping you know fast. Thank you Drew Davenport. It's by yahoo answers user George
or Jorge who asks I mean I don't know uh who asks my 14 year old son wants to be naked for Halloween?
In July we usually buy our Halloween costumes because the Halloween shop that we go to stays
open until July. That's the smartest fucking thing I've ever heard on yahoo answers. Then
everything is 75% off. I mean they didn't come up with it. They didn't come up with this Halloween
costumes racket. Fair. Um I know crazy right? That wasn't me that was yahoo. Uh I have three
children one three-year-old one six-year-old and one 14-year-old all boys. I got this cute bumblebee
costume for my three-year-old and my six-year-old wanted to dress up as Darth Vader. Funny how he
still loves Star Wars though. But my 14-year-old says he just wants to go trick-or-treating naked
and when I asked him again if he wanted a costume he said he wanted to go completely naked and that
it would save us money anyway. I am the very nice kind of dad and I don't like to be stern or mean
but I don't know but is it okay for my 14-year-old son to trick-or-treat naked? Love George. Uh huh. I'm
just kind of an amateur dad right now but I can go ahead and tell you that isn't that that's not
what nice daddies do. Yeah. That nice daddies don't let their kids run around. Now if you're a cool
dad you let your kid run around with his dong out and stuff. And check out my kids kibblets. Hey I'm
one of those cool dads. Hey dad my penis is in like a really crazy transformational 14-year-old
phase right now. It's covered it's pupating it's the worst but I do want to get that out and just
sort of show the neighborhood. Um can I do that? No you can't do that. Why are you so stern and mean
dad? Oh shit I just figured this question out. Finally. This 14-year-old doesn't want to go
trick-or-treating anymore. Oh so they're calling their bluff. Yeah he thinks he's too old to go out
trick-or-treating. So he's like yeah I'll go dad if you let me go naked. But this is a dangerous
this dongman's gambit is a fucking dangerous game. Yeah it's a dongerous game. If George or Jorge
calls your bluff that's it. Yeah. You're done in that town professionally. Have we considered that
maybe naked is the name of a new street drug? Dad I'm not gonna trick-or-treat I want to go on naked.
And he gets all tripped out all hopped up on goofballs and then he's running around the
neighborhood all cranked on naked. And kids are like shouting at him because they recognize it
because they're in middle school too they know the they know the score they're shouting at him
like he's on the Jorge Jr's on that nude. Jorge's wanged on that nude. And ironically one of the
clearest signs that someone is on naked is they can't stand the feel of clothes on their body.
Do you think maybe he just wants to like slim good body it? Oh maybe like a see-through suit so you
can see his insides that might be a good compromise. I want to go as now you will have to put like a
full dong on the suit. Yeah slim good body I don't remember let me hold on let me do a quick
google image search yeah no dick here no dicks on slim good body uh uh oh no that's like guts and
stuff yeah yeah he went clearly he went full like visible man yeah but you can't see like his uh
testes he can't see his like testes or his um was good buddies what i've seen it's good buddies
can we get back to the real question here absolutely which is what fucking 14 year old
in existence has ever been like people have got to check out what i have going downtown people
have to see what i'm working with in my downtown my 14 year old downtown confident 14 year old oh
yeah or uh like a chimera because it doesn't fucking exist he's like a dragon he's the quits
that's heterak he's the one who's not afraid of his 14 year old dong he got his dick figured out
at 10 is what you're saying okay what it what if this is uh a sort of research project for him he
so doesn't have his dong figured out that he needs to stroll around town with it exposed to judge
from reactions as to whether or not he has suitable or possibly deformed equipment he has no
there's no uh uh uh uh uh comparisons for him so in order to judge the quality of his 14 year old
in order to judge the quality of his dong he's just gonna look at people's faces and see see
what their reactions to it are have you guys checked out that documentary on netflix about
the 14 year old kid who just wants to see what people think of his dong zero dreams of sushi
boyhood boy that's what that's what the film boyhood is and it's great because you get to
watch you get to watch that pupation in process over 11 years in high definition go see it at
nymax you won't regret it it's a little bit the 10 year old boy forms a cocoon around himself
yeah at 14 bursts out fully formed dong and all yeah then walks around the neighborhood and gets
some kit kats yeah if you've uh not listened to our show before that's the portion where we talk
about teenage dong and now here's the next question is there a way i could ask my husband to
lose a little weight he has always carried a little weight but in the last year it's getting
blueberry blubbery around he's eating some magic bubble gum he doesn't listen to this podcast i'm
an active person and i'm pretty disciplined about portion size and eating healthy is there a way i
can ask him to trim down without absolutely hurting his feelings and that's from uh sydney
mcelroy in huntington west virginia wow usually they don't include the whole name that's weird
because i'm married to a wait a minute um i mean let's be realistic that's from every every person
currently married to a mcelroy man well travis eats 20 cookies a day how do i get him just to
cut back to 10 10 cookies a day just reasonable i mean i guess i mean this one's hitting a little
close to home guys it's hard to make goose and it's like how would i want someone to tell me i'm
chubbing up right is this is this what it's like to be on like the receiving end of our of our goof
maelstrom i don't like this at all the goosters have become the goof i don't like this one bit
you could you don't have to talk to him about losing weight you could just start altering the
life that the two of you share so when you're gonna go out on a walk then um invite him to go
along there and tell him maybe you're gonna go for ice cream and then wander around the neighborhood
and say huh i guess they lost the ice cream store well i guess we should go home now who lost for
that who lost five six seven times who lost the ice cream store in this situation that both of
them they're like i i thought i thought there was a new one around here uh never mind let's go home
and he'll fall for that if it was me seven eight nine ten times so there there's a week and a half
of of exercise now as far as portion control goes that's very easy uh when the two of you are making
dinner or you're ordering order exactly enough for two small portions that's all you can make
and then if he eats too much more then you just take like a little sliver just like oh i guess
there's only this much left for me how about this play you're at applebee's because where else are
you gonna go see you tomorrow applebee's you got applebee's that is their slogan i know this you
got applebee's and both of you get a delicious like shitty steak with like a bunch of cheese
melted on top of it and then um you both get that but you hate yourself it's good but it's
fucking sucks and then you take yours and accidentally throw it on the ground and then
you say i know i made a whoopsie again and then he says don't worry we'll go half seas on mine and
then you do that every time that you eat anything anywhere ever again and he's gonna get curious
after a while like god damn it sheila god damn it sheila god damn it sheila you promised sheila i
warn you if i have one more time i was gonna insist you got an mri i think there's something
seriously wrong in there up in your brain goo um so that could work that could work maybe that's
how it's just drop shit by saying like uh we need to eat better we need to exercise bad shit that
dog don't that dog don't hunt though like i won't fly that's like very direct yeah well if we want
to go indirect could you gaslight him and while he's at work switch out his clothes all of them
for like half a size smaller each day that's some if that happened to me all i would think is man
my muscles are getting huge yeah um i didn't exercise yeah um no travis that's some psycho
pageant mom shit don't i would somewhere between completely direct and psycho pageant mom could you
put him on the pageant circuit and assume that the uh disapproving looks from the other moms
will sort of like edge him towards uh wanting better fitness do you assume those disapproving
moms uh they're looking at him that way because he's a little chubby or because he's a 35 year
old six-year-old look at him on that stage god he could afford to lose 15 or 20 pounds he would be
so much healthier what is he doing get lose 15 pounds and get a flipper dave get a dave look at
your kids baton routine was weak his baton routine was terrible and also he is an old man
and everyone else here isn't here is the way you can encourage any man to sleep in that princess
bed here is the way you can encourage any man to become physically fit i just solved this problem
for all of the world you ready ready for this i guess buy him two items one a 10-foot wall
two a sweet grappling hook i guarantee he will be in your yard and do everything in his power
until he is able to climb the rope attached to the grappling hook like a sweet sweet ninja
he will do whatever fitness things he needs to do he will work on it every night he will not stop
until he can scale it and feel like an awesome wall scaling guy now justin i feel like that's
awesome advice not the most actionable we've ever given because i don't know where one buys a 10-foot
high wall you gotta build it gotta build it if he's if he's gonna learn to get fit you gotta
learn a little carpentry and masonry okay yep get some rocks get some slack get some glue
that wall is gonna fall and kill your husband uh-huh and then he'll be much thinner he will be
a new skinny husband you just got a flat family your husband he'll lose an entire dimension
dimension um you want to go to money zone yes i do
so everybody's tried hulu on their computer but did you know about hulu plus it's like the hulu
on your computer but way better because there's a ton of stuff on there that you can watch from
a ton of different devices uh new girl sure the good wife catch up on that scandal don't mind if
i do family guy revenge glee community uh there's an insane amount of stuff just waiting there for
you dying for you to watch it did you know that if you don't watch new girl then zoe dashnell sits
inside your tv and waits patiently staring out a window for you to come and watch her program
listening listening to patsy kline songs the sad ones just sitting and staring and waiting for you
how could you do this it works on a smart tv sure roku yep apple tv you got an xbox uh you can watch
on your phone tablet train dentist don't do that the dentist actually you probably should i think
that's gonna cause some issues they give you some time they put the nova cane in and then they go
we'll be back in in like 20 minutes and that's a new girl episode that's a single new girl episode
it is just eight bucks a month okay which is a steal but uh you're gonna get a two week free
trial that's right no eight bucks for you you're gonna you're gonna try out the luxury service this
express line to entertainment city by going to hulu plus dot com slash my brother that's hulu
plus dot com slash my brother take a day off from work and just eat all the tv you can and just keep
sui dash channel from dying from loneliness yeah she's in there right now if you're a regular
listener of the show then you know hooli plus has been a partner of ours for a long time now
they've been really really supportive so we want to keep that going so make sure you go to hulu
plus dot com slash my brother to prove to them that you heard about it from that they're not
just flushing their money down this shitter yeah yeah i got a message guys do you know who it's
for i do because i'm reading it is it for derrick f yeah can you read this i got i got tired halfway
through because i remember i did that entire hulu plus ad and i got exhausted so you want me to take
over please this message is for derrick f it's from your friend tim who says this year you moved
out of my house you also became a real-life human adult male aka had your 30th birthday that's not
how that works it is i've known since college that you were stuck with my fraternal bond of
friendship forever so while you moved out of my house you could never move out of my heart
oh that is so sweet may your 30th year be full of wonder success and homoeroticism that's wonderful
wow that would be a very powerful 30th year sure a lot of sexual awakening a lot a lot of success
a lot of totally great wonder oh yeah yeah yeah and some new urges i love it i'm into it unfamiliar
but not unpleasant 30 years is a long time to go without dabbling and dibbling just a little dabbling
just a little dab a little do you oh wait what nope it won't it did yeah but it did not do it
you're gonna go back for the double dabble double dabble do you don't mind oh uh who is this message
for why it's for do a dollop of daisy it's the message from it's from mud okay they pronounce
they gave us a fucking phonetic pronunciation if we don't use it well if you tell me how to
phonetically pronounce dg majdi majdi yeah it's just like reading like the letters come come
together to print like they create little discrete sounds and then you attach those to each other
there's a message for kate from majdi terrific what is in your message sorry should we start
this one over no i love how bad you've done so far oh good hey kate you're a pretty great person
i thought you might want to hear from your second favorite group of brothers okay oh thanks for
reading all my dumb stuff and listening to my equally silly stories i look forward to even more
brain circles with you also i love you also i'm john hans man i hope that wasn't a a a kill order
i'm ensuring kate style john hans or what if majdi majdi has been catfishing kate
as role playing as john hans and then this is the big reveal i mean it's not very big i've seen way
bigger like john hans cancel cancel the flight to your getaway wedding in aruba with john hans
because it's been me the whole time enjoy the podcast i do love you though i do love you and
i want to go to more brain i didn't mean for it to go this far you just seem so happy with john
hans and i didn't want to take that away but it got out of hand can i tell you can i say something
in machi's defense uh-huh nobody means for their catfish to go as far as it inevitably ends up
going god does that's true everyone wants to jump in do a double dabble and then before they know
it they're on their like 19th dabble and they're like fuck this is way too deep i gotta break the
news but i can't because i'm scared there's no off ramp for catfishing no just have to take it
to the logical conclusion which is marriage or murder that's the only two ways a good catfish
can end this next message is from mark abbott and it's from mark's friend mike now keep in mind
mark's friend mike is the one writing filling in these boxes so mike identifies as mark's friend
he introduces himself oh i'm mark's friend mike who's mark you're alone you know mark mark abbott
you know it's my friend mark and he says hey mark since you got me a sweet new job i decided
to use part of my first check to buy you this message oh great money great money management
my dog mike i know i was deeply in debt and owed you 500 but whatever so in a way it's like you
bought it yourself thanks for the job and many years of friendship hopefully i'll still be
employed by the time the brothers get around to reading this this also counts as the birthday
birthday present i never got you there you go that's the baby i love it so happy birthday
mark abbott i guess like happy you sound like a solid solid person just like getting this person
a job and being like so cool with an enormous disgusting amount of money that they owe you
that you have just let slide what's up my name is jasper red co-host of the goose down along with
the lovely kimberly clark and we want to invite you into the comfort and groove of our podcast
that encompasses the arts and entertainment you can check us out at maximalfund.org also
available on itunes see ya ladies and gentlemen we are so thrilled to have with us a very special
guest elizabeth gilbert is the author of the signature of all things and eat pray love and
she joins us for reasons that defy understanding here on my brother my brother and me elizabeth
gilbert welcome to our program thank you so much thank you for saying the signature of all things
before eat pray love that is not a typical way to introduce me well there you go i'm into i'm into
the new stuff i like it you like you like my acoustic album right exactly whatever the opposite
of the deep deep cut is right if it's new or it's i guess it's it is a a shallow it is a
superficial cut no that sounds terrible that sounds extremely offensive it's nice to be on
the show griffin yeah thank you for your superficial cut i'm just kidding uh so we're
gonna ask you some questions that have been submitted by our readers and you have to help
them at least as much as we usually do so okay but i've been listening to the show for years
and i know that that sets the bar very high yeah oh uh so here we go okay let's go i am a low now
miss gilbert you you of course already know that at this point uh i am in the character of the question
asker do not be confused this is not just gilbert i'm gonna get really intimidated so all right
yeah it's mrs gilbert so you can call me professor gilbert it's dr gilbert honorary
didn't go to nine years of gilbert school to be called the miss okay so uh again so again
in in the character of the question asker yes i'm a lowly bookstore employee here in sunny
north vancouver canada and now i'm in west virginia so not this isn't me this is the
question oh my god i got so confused thank you for clarifying that north vancouver canada what
i want to know is how should i be selling your books do you have a favorite should i stick to
the classic you pray love or the signature of all things your new baby that's from brendan
oh my gosh how do you want to be marketed that's so nice um i'm going to send him a whole marketing
plan for how he should be selling my books um i think he should play the hits personally
because i think um that people probably want to just keep reading eat pray love because that's
certainly what it looks like and um if he likes the signature of all things and he's read it and
he wants to hand sell it for that purpose that's great but i don't know i i don't feel like anybody's
obliged to um i don't feel like anybody's obliged to come with me on all the creative journeys that
i go on just because i like going on them so i'm never offended when people just kind of stick to
eat pray love does that make sense but what you're saying is them royalties all spend the same yeah
coaching either way there have got to be book hipsters though right like oh you're buying
eat pray love well i guess that's all right i mean i like her b sides but that's fine
b sides now from superficial to b sides you you two are killing me
um but you know what i will pull out of that that question that i think is interesting and
that we could talk about is the idea of he said signature of all things is your new baby
and and that's something that i always try to talk people out of doing about their own work
is calling it their baby because i think that sets you up for terrible trauma um but i think
the feeling they're trying to get across and i think it's something that like in the music scene
especially like i will get psyched to go see like a musical artist that i have loved my entire life
right and then i go to their concert and they're like here's only songs off our new
album you don't you don't know any of these songs so don't try and sing along i hate i heard um john
cougar melon camp in an interview once and he said people who work really hard and have hard lives
didn't spend 50 bucks to come and hear me not sing jack and diane i love that and i feel like that
that's why sometimes very considerate interviewers will say i don't want to bother you with questions
about he pray love and i'm like it's my jack and diane yeah people didn't come to this bookstore
to hear me not say you know answer the question what's what was it like to see julia roberts
play you and like i'll answer that question 20 000 times because it's rude not to i think um so
so yeah jimmy buffett had a great quote you know uh james buffett uh song songster and they asked
him about margaritaville and he said am i gonna sing it to my daughter tonight as she goes to
sleep no am i gonna sing at the concert tomorrow yes well it's also got to be a little bit of like
what gets them in the door right like if they read whatever book and then go now i want to read more
or the same with like the musical artist maybe you hear jack and diane and then you go i want
to find out more about this john cougar melon can fellow who is this who's this young upstart
he's a comer that one um my parents went and saw gordon lightfoot once at the beginning of
the concert he announced that he would not be singing the wreck of the edmund fist gerald
and they said like literally 20 of the audience that's so great is that what is that some sort
of a love test on his count to see um then he did sing it like okay now i was just fucking with those
guys i am gonna sing the wreck because you're the only ones who deserve it because you're the true
you're the true love you're the true light feet i'm gonna sing i'm gonna sing an abridged 14
minute version i saw i saw rufus wainwright once after uh playing after ben folds and it was an
outdoor show and like after ben folds finished uh uh i would say like a good third of the audience
stood up and walked out as rufus wainwright was coming on stage and the first thing he said was
well now that all the straight people are gone awesome i have a backed up sink that i can't get
running smoothly what the hell elizabeth gilbert i've tried draino product with no luck any help
would be greatly appreciated that's from backed up in the bay i love our listeners what we had
john roderick um rock musician rock legend the cougar melon camp of our time on the show and
somebody asked him about eating boneless chicken wings i don't think why squander the are you a sink
expert i i don't want to brag but i can totally answer this question and i'm glad that backed up
thought to send it to me um first of all stop washing your goat in your sink there you go yeah
that's number one that's the biggest problem are they a shedding are they a shedding animal um goats
are pretty you know they can be pretty shitty depending upon the breed um but i think that's
the problem that i i mean just i'm just doing this over the phone i haven't seen the sink but
i'm guessing yeah i'm going to go it's a very it's a very card talk like experience what sound
is your sink making is it like a roar roar roar what sound is your goat making there's a lot of
variables there's a lot of variables there also i would say move that's what i do that's what i do
when anything breaks it's like the blue it's like the blue bristles on your toothbrush
when your sink stops working it's time to get a new house yes the house is the house is done
you're moving today right you told us before we started is it a sink related issue no i had a
light bulb go out on the porch and i don't have a ladder that's tall enough to fix it so we're
moving you do have a car with a lot of trunk space that's right and you do have some cardboard boxes
and every time i look at that burned out light bulb now i'm like not my problem anymore
yeah next sorry sucker good luck next owner i didn't put that in my homeowner's report
yeah you have to disclose that during the closing um uh i i removed a pretty horrific uh clog from
a drain a few months ago and man there is nothing that will disabuse you of whatever romanticism
you have attached to humanity quicker than doing that and thinking this came from me did it look
like you've pulled a rat a rat out of the like just a dead it's so disgusting it's the worst
oh it's brutal it's like a wax covered rat i've done this before it's nasty a rat in wax
i made a candle out of it a decorative it seems so cruel elizabeth
when i get interested in some creative pursuit i tend to go hard on consuming the behind the scenes
media slash content for it i'll start listening to a bunch of podcasts follow various relevant
public figures reading blogs etc i started wondering if steeping myself in all this
peripheral content is prematurely satisfying the desire to actually go and do did you guys as
gilbert and brothers alike experience anything like this before you started acting actively
creating is the trade-off of insight versus potential stalling worth it am i completely
imagining this problem that's from interested but inactive um i mean it sounds like what you're
talking about is is research if you have like a even like a potential desire to to dip in then
everything you're doing is research the trouble is that you can like consume so much high quality
content that it can scare you out of like i'll never be able to make something like this and
then you don't do it i also find because i do this a lot sometimes you can trick yourself into
feeling like research is doing the thing and never actually make progress on the actual project
because you feel like you're already accomplishing something because i get i do that all the time
where it's like oh i want to learn about this so i can do it and then i learn about it and feel
accomplished and never actually do the thing yeah do you guys feel like you know the difference if
you're being very honest with yourself you know the difference between doing productive research
and just dicking around like if if you were to like the the question the questioner if he were
to really ask himself as he's listening to a podcast come on man like you know right like
don't you know well for for for this what we're like i tend i think a lot of people have the
wrong idea about creativity i think creativity is just your brain reorganizing junk and making and
turning it into something different and like i i never know what junk i'm gonna put in my head that
is gonna be worth pulling while we're recording this program like it what normally whatever bizarre
topic that we get off on a given week is just whatever one of us has been like thinking or
reading about be it jimmy buffett or sure jimmy buffett i guess like if i'm researching like live
show venues for us to do live shows in and then i click over to facebook and i see somebody putting
over to facebook and i see somebody posted like a buzzfeed quiz of which oc character are you
and then i take the quiz trying as hard as i can to get sandy cohen using every fiber of
my being to try and get sandy cohen is that research for the show guess what it fucking
is because i just talked about it on the show which means you can also write it off on your
taxes i just wrote that buzzfeed quiz off on my taxes that's right can i tell you guys something
i got jimmy cooper what the fuck right like it's like the worst one you could have gotten yeah
yeah i think did you do it again i did do it again i think the trick is that you have to
remember that creativity has to go with productivity and that while you're doing this
research say like you're gonna do an hour two hours of research and then you're gonna write
you know a page you're going to write 500 words and just put something down or do something so
like if you're going to reward yourself by watching a movie about the thing that's really
interesting you you have to also do the work associated with it and eventually you'll do
more work than research how when did obviously you did a lot of research for signature of all
things it seems very thoroughly researched when did you know you had like done enough or was it
like an ongoing process as you were writing i did like three years of research so i know
this feeling in a way i know this question about preparing um but it wasn't passive it's i mean
part of it is that you're not just sitting there watching movies or you know i was taking notes the
entire time and and filling up shoe boxes with index cards and putting them in order of character
and subject and so so you're it's sort of like what travis was saying you're making something out
of what you're doing you're not just you know you're not just randomly surfing um but the but
i think i knew that i was ready when i kept circling around and finding myself like uh i
would i would open up a book about 19th century botanical exploration and i would feel like i
knew most of it already you know like oh i know all right right right i know this i know this
i know this so when you start meeting yourself you know like your tail and your head connect
then i think then it's time to put the research away and and to get going on actually doing
something is that scary is that because like i think we were pretty intimidated when we we all
listened to like a shit ton of podcasts and and that was i guess the preparation we did before we
just started doing the show and we did it like we did the first episode on a whim it was like
hey we're not doing anything today let's just pull the trigger on this but it was like really
intimidating i remember doing that and um that was like fucking clown shoes compared to writing a
novel um so like how like isn't it intimidating to be like oh shit like the the safety net's gone
i'm not like i can't just write this off as preparation anymore now i'm actually doing the
thing right i just jumped off the the the cliff i think um if i can be really serious i feel like
what you have to understand always about anything creative and inventive is that
creativity and fear are conjoined twins and i think lots of times the reasons that people hold
back from being creative is because the fear is so great and so in order to try to murder
or the fear they end up killing off the creativity as well and um and so you have to just accept that
they that they were born together they share all the same organs they're always going to be together
and and you have to make a lot of space for just allowing the fear to coexist along with the
creativity so what i always do before i begin any project is i actually sit down and have a
conversation with the fear and just say um look we're going on a road trip me and creativity and
i know you're coming and um i just want you to know that you're paying for gas you're gonna eat
all the combos you're the worst get to touch the fucking radio you don't get to drive you don't get
to hold the map you don't get to make any decisions but you get to be in the minivan and i know that
you're gonna do the thing that you do which is to just sit in the back seat and scream at the top
of your lungs at every corner all the horrible things that could go wrong and thank you because
i know that's your contribution um but but we're but we're not creativity and i are gonna make all
the choices and you don't get to make any of them but you but you have to let it be there um because
it's not i feel like the harder you try to fight it the more it fights back and um and the worse
it gets so you just have to make a lot of you just have to get a really big minivan um so that
there's room for all three of you as you have a do you have any uh like writing ceremony do you
have to be in a certain place or listen to certain music or light a certain motif or or anything along
those lines i do like a certain fight club or do i recite your favorite scene from fight club yeah
mostly it's reciting my favorite scenes how did you guys know that um knew it we've read your
fan fiction you know you know how it is um you know a lot of it is just about you know i feel
like a lot of it is just about signaling to the weird mysterious forces of creativity that you
are actually taking this seriously and and i think that that like it's sort of a signal that
you send to yourself and it's a signal that you send to you know the universe for lack of a better
term that you're not kidding you know um and and by and there's all sorts of ways you can signal
that like one of the ways i do it is that i don't write in my pajamas you know like i get dressed
um oh shit you know like i know i just i just are you literally all in your pajamas right
oh super definitely yes and by right now i mean like i work from home so basically around the
clock 4 30 i'm like oh shit my wife's coming home i better clean my body i used to do that
but i feel like it i feel like it sends a message that you're not really awake and that you're not
really so like i get dressed especially at the beginning of a project like i'll get dressed like
i'm going to something important you know like i'll clean the room like it's like a visitor is
coming you know like i'll i'll just try to set the scene and then as the project goes on and i
get more confident i'll get sloppier but i think at the beginning the ritual is like this is important
and i'm i'm showing up as if it is does that make sense yeah totally i got another question for you
a year and a half ago my sister began traveling around south america she saved up her money sold
her house and car and quit her corporate job i'm so proud of her and her journey but i'm also a
little uneasy i can't really relate to her desires her experiences i also worry about her safety at
times how can i be supportive even if i feel a little left behind that's from helpless at home
base oh i bet it's younger sister did it did it say younger sister uh no just sister oh it seems
like a younger sister thing to do and an older sister thing to worry maybe they're twins conjoined
no that would be different i worry about this because travis is moving to la i i have these
worries the south america of america south america america south america la west america
the left goes um i don't have an answer so if you got one for me hook me up um well first of all i
think it's that the idea that somebody might not want to go on a journey like that is reminds me
of a friend of mine who said to me right when i was about to leave to go on the trip that became
me pray love and i said i'm doing i'm going to italy for four months and then i'm going to india
and i'm going to go to this ashram and i'm going to learn how to meditate and then i'm going to
indonesia and he said oh man there's a part of me that so wishes that i wanted to do that and i
really have no desire whatsoever to do any of those things um i thought that was so lovely and
honest um that's crazy because the thing about that is is like the desire doesn't seem like the
problem to me so much as like the logistics or something like that seems like a really complicated
plan i'd love to do it i'd love to do what this sister has done but like that's a lot of commitment
to like quit your job and sell your house and your car and that's a lot of work and
like quit your job and sell your house and your car and that seems the scary part to me not the
actual traveling part i know i think you just have to i think on behalf of the person who's
afraid or or feels left behind um i think you have to be more afraid for her if she's not doing
the thing that she's called to do right because then then you lose your then you really lose your
um like if she stays put in misery or in in boredom or in torpor when what she really wants to be
doing is traveling around south america then you don't really have the full realization of that
person in your life and um i think you have to let her go become who she needs to be we've got
an we got another question here uh from a real uh listener of ours they said oh what does torpor
mean again that's from uh just forgot it for a second but sure i know it is that from asking for
a friend asking for a friend in milwaukee wisconsin from bill justin's it no wait
it's from bill microphone um i don't know what do you what are you afraid is gonna happen to
travis in la justin i question my my wife has a has a metaphor she always uses she says when she
was little she would uh she liked to put all of her stuffed animals on her bed at once because
she felt very secure knowing that they were all there on on her bed where she could keep an eye
on them and and i have similar impulses for family where i wish that i could just keep everybody in
sight so i could keep an eye on them and knew what was uh what what they were doing and then i could
i could protect them so i i don't know what the danger is i just know that i i have fear about
uh him being that far out of my out of my reach well listen if we're being honest and open about
this i will say as the person that's leaving so speaking for the sister that's traveling i think
the best thing that you can do question asker is to be supportive even if you don't feel it which
justin has been wonderful about this because knowing that someone is back home caring about you
helps you make smarter decisions because you hear that voice in your head and you're thinking
what would my sister want me to do what would my brother want what would my loved one want me to
do in this situation and it helps you be more responsible about your decisions and really
think through things a lot more because you're not being as impulsive because you know that
there's someone back home who is supporting you but also is worried about you on the on the polar
opposite end i am being like extremely unsupportive of travis to feel that person sitting in the back
of the audience when you just completed your piano concert and i gotta keep i gotta keep
them hungry and keep them driven i fill that role elizabeth for a lot of people for a lot
of people in your life and not in my life they don't know it i went i'll see i went saw cloud
atlas and i will make disparaging remarks about tom hanks's performance he's not going to get
those but if he did get those he would try a little bit harder don't you think griffin do
you generally just sit in the back in the back seat of life um with your with your spectacles
down on your nose critically watching the uh the piano recital that is everyone's journey i guess
i'll ask you elizabeth what is good enough for me griffin is griffin is the statler and waldorf of
the modern world who's just hanging out in life's balcony right but like some people mine is not a
punitive and it's not i don't fucking enjoy it i certainly don't enjoy it it's it is a it on my
deathbed i i'm going to be you know cold and alone and then the door is going to swing open and then
so many successful full friends justin travis elizabeth you tom hanks gonna run in they're
gonna be like thank you griffin and i'll be like your will be that's how it goes uh here's a
question my friend and former roommate came home a while back man i this is gonna be a toughie so
let's just let's just all hang in there together okay i'm gripping onto the arms of my chair we're
gonna get through this you're you're i i'm i'm sorry about this one in advance but you did
pre-screen these and give the thumbs up to all of them so let's like fucking navigate these
choppy waters together here uh my friend and former roommate came home a while back with a
tattoo that said for whom on his chest when i asked him what it meant he explained it as a
reference to a poem he wrote inspired by the motion picture he pray love the tattoo in question has
become the focal point of a lot of teasing how long can i use this tattoo against him before it
gets too mean i love and kid the kid and cherish his friendship but i also like pointing out that
his tattoo is horrible that's from terrible tattoo at temple university one quick point before we
move on i like how uh this this person said that the tattoo had become a focal point of a lot of
teasing with a non-specific uh uh tease or and then it later then it immediately clarified the
next sentence like no no no i mean me for me i'm the one doing it right it starts with teasing was
done and then someone was doing the teasing but from the rest object of this teasing from whom
myself i will answer that for you to whom sad friend um i like that that there's i like that
he's like when i was trying to figure out what he's asking i think he's asking like how do i
jam in as much ridicule as possible in in a period of time that is limited in a tasteful in a tasteful
way a tasteful way before what happens like then before the kid stops talking to him i guess yeah
before tears the the question is always do you try to pack in as much teasing up front or do
you spread it out over several years and just do a moderate amount of teasing but you get to do it
for longer you know is it quantity or quality i i i find everything about this question really
wonderful especially the fact that this guy wrote a poem based on the movie he pray loves well he
got a tattoo based on the poem based on the movie that's based on your book yeah that's like a lot
of spin-offs that's amazing you know i think if i was this guy i'd go ahead and read that but
before i got that bad boy inked on my chest yeah because then at least you can say right it's based
on a book and not on the movie adaptation it's a poem based on a book sounds a lot better or
inspired by rather than uh inspired by the major major motion picture i think that the person
who is teasing should write a novelization of the tattoo this is my graphic novel yes i have a tattoo
i have a tattoo on my neck that says danger it's based on the novelization of the movie lost in
space with matthew leblanc so um but i i really do you guys understand the peculiarity of the
the fact that this guy doesn't seem to be holding back the teasing at all nor does anybody else and
yet there seems to be like some sense that there's a statute of limitations and i don't know what
what that comes from like it comes from it comes from like it doesn't matter what the source
material for this tattoo is you got for whom tattooed on your chest when you're at the beach
especially for like a ripped strong good body it looks like you're saying like here's a present
for you america my body right am i the only one that's getting hit like if you got like a gift
tag tattooed around it like that's what it would look like like i'm a present for you
that's what it sounds like to me what i love i think the question is saying when i see this
tattoo or we think about this tattoo i cannot help but tease this kid about it even as i'm
doing it i feel bad but i can't stop how much is too mean when do i just need to like cold turkey
personally i think the meanest time the meanest time to tease someone about their tattoo is right
after they get their tattoo because they're still going through a lot of things like they're still
processing a lot and there's probably if there's any uh uh unsure feelings about this this thing
that they've done it is probably right then i think you caught him at peak vulnerability
honestly it's also not like teasing someone about their weird hat or like an ugly pair of shoes he
can't go you're right and take the tattoo off see i feel like when when griffin said it feels sort
of arrogant like you're welcome america right that's what i'm saying i felt like totally absent
i felt that it felt sort of longing like for whom am i and and then when he needs his great love he
can cross out the whom and put susan it can be like you can add a question mark to the end of
for whom and then susan period exactly and then it's like done my perp you know like and you keep
the whom there as a reminder of your sad lonelier self and then it becomes kind of a beautiful
tattoo i think well if that doesn't work out you cross it out and you put leslie like whoever
you just continue right below that scratch that and then an em dash now it's melissa
and if you have a long torso you can just keep going yeah how long is this kid's torso
is the question that's that see these are the essentials that we never get in uh in in these
bits um i i i think that we have have uh imposed on on you for quite long enough it's been a half
hour that we've just been talking to you about garbage so we're sorry about that that's kind
of what we do here but thank oh my god travis has changed his skype picture to him standing with a
horse how am i supposed to continue with that travis that's an amazing picture your sleeves
are rolled up you look like you've been doing some labor this looks after this i rode that horse no
no you didn't uh elizabeth gilbert thank you so much for uh uh joining us on our program
we've of course mentioned your uh the the your your books do you have anything else you want to
plug you have a uh uh your twitter of course oh i'm twitter i met gilbert liz but now that
the world cup is over i don't have much to say um yeah and um but mostly i just first
first sincerity i just really want to thank you guys for my bim bam because it is a joyful and
fantastic thing that has brought me so much pleasure and happiness and company when i walk
my dog and um and i think i speak for all of america when i say that you're a national treasure
so well like you guys like 30 000 people who live in america to be precise i know that you travel a
lot what's the weirdest uh place that you've ever listened to my brother my brother and me
oh gosh i usually listen to it on long airplane trips so probably um i saved him up for when i
came home from new zealand last time because that's like a 57 hour flight yeah and that that
was fantastic it made me very happy um thanks you guys i mean i hate to i hate to kill the
comedy by ending on a note of earnestness listen if you didn't do what one of us is going to
uh thank you so much for joining us uh elizabeth gilbert and you were great and we really appreciate
you being here thanks you guys and now let's get back to lesser quality programming yeah i guess
how about a yahoo hit me someone sent in by drew davenport thank you drew test by yahoo answers
user ds who asks best battle ever takes place in the same area that goku fought vegeta the first
time so not not their final battle we're talking about the first right we're the first one the
premiere goku v vegeta where we're the first time goku fought fajita okay got it go ahead um
so this is in the religion and spirituality section so we're talking about jeremiah the the
prophet the weeping prophet you know him you might know him from kings um 50 foot robot jeremiah with
laser eyes and the mobility of 8 10 ability to fly but only for three minutes before a charge
up of five minutes low class shields and five rockets machine gun 200 bullets a mag one minute
reload time and unlimited mags versus uh-huh 75 foot alan rickman with tentacles for arms and beefy
legs mobility of five out of ten and mid-class shields machine gun fire from suckers and
tentacles reload and mag size the same as above unlimited mags and mouth laser equivalent to
three eye lasers added bonus that he can jump 200 feet higher than jeremiah can fly but can also
smash the ground with the power of three missiles but can only do it twice or his shields will break
jesus such a good question it's a really tough one you got jeremiah in one corner author of first and
second kings do you think wait is it possible that by jeremiah they mean jeremy irons no they
mean jeremiah creator of that joint hit lamentations because i would love to see a battle between giant
jeremy irons no no alan rickman i don't get the connection between jeremiah and alan rickman this
person needed to put this question somewhere religion and spirituality i imagine is a pretty
good place for like getting answers on your yahoo mysteries um so he had to get some bible shit in
there somewhere we got jeremiah do you need the stats again 50 feet jeremiah he's eight out of
ten speed that's pretty fast he can fly but only for three minutes i guess to charge up for five
so it's not like an unlimited thing alan rickman can't fly he does have tentacle machine gun arms
he can't jump super high though and when he pounds the ground it has the strength of three missiles
can't do that more than twice so or his shields will break though can they call it one thing i
know about jeremiah it's that he was a bullfrog don't no come on and he was a good friend of
justin start talking i think that the problem can they call it can they call in uh reinforcements
can jeremiah call in another biblical prophet can jeremiah call in like uh matthew or mark or luke
and alan rickman could call it i don't know like jason isaac janine garofalo hello jason isaac
join me please take one of my tentacle arms dislodge it from my body and use it to defend
yourself so your problem with this question is that there's not enough specificity in the powers
that have been allotted to jeremiah the biblical prophet and alan rickman who was right i'm saying
they are they still human or is this like a mecha like voltron ultraman we might be looking at an
ultraman scenario so robotic cyber alan rickman i think in this situation jeremiah is is ultraman
and i think alan rickman might be the the kaiju gotcha i'm gonna have to go alan rickman every
time he does he has a significant height advantage he's slower and that's i think the only thing that
jeremiah has going from that extra three points of speed it's gonna fucking count on the battlefield
he can he can jump and hit the ground with the power of three missiles that's true but jeremiah
has five rockets so you throw you throw alan rickman in the air you're basically like skeet
shooting at that point yeah and you think you think alan rickman's about to win but then jeremiah
finds the locket that alan rickman bought for his secretary in his coat pocket and he gets so
pissed off he gets fucking angry and then he turns around turns the whole battle around and jeremiah
brings him down and then jeremiah reaches behind between his shoulder blades and pulls the gun that
he had duct taped there and shoots alan rickman well he didn't do that out the window oh he did
do that no yeah you're right um no that was in lamentations that was in lamentations five six
yippee ki-yay holy father uh this has been our podcast my brother my brother me we hope you've
had a lot of fun uh listening to it enjoying and absorbing it but not too much absorption actually
that doesn't seem healthy uh we have a ton of other stuff there's literally i can say there's
now hundreds of of previous episodes uh if you're interested in that sort of thing we have a youtube
channel that travis has been feverishly updating it's youtube slash mbnb am including some
animated videos that tyler crowley made for us and they are wonderful thank you tyler we're on
twitter to twitter slash mbnb am uh we have a facebook we have two facebook groups i'm not
sure which one you want to join so join them both uh there's we're on the maximum fun network we're
proud members the maximum fun network uh and you should be listening to all the other programs on
there like jordan jesse go judge john hodgeman stop podcasting yourself saw bones down lady
to lady thank you griffin saw bones uh is a show i do with my wife medical history um and there's
many many others that you can enjoy right now going to maximum fun dot org uh big thanks again
to liz gilbert yes for joining us liz huh uh liz wow you guys are close huh yeah i mean we've
really gotten to know each other over the last two weeks so you guys can all f off okay i mean
i've been on that email thread i didn't think that you have i didn't think you had like seed yeah
um is right no thank thank you we haven't recorded that bit yet but i bet it is great um also a big
thanks to unless she tagged unless she takes yikes um if she tagged then no thanks um with big hair
ball um big old thanks to john roger and the long winters for the use for a theme song it's a
departure off the album putting the days to bed and i'll never when she don't she was required
listening um required required purchasing is that album thank you john roger should we close it out
yeah close it out griffin you got one more yahoo and thank you everybody for listening yeah here
we go it's finally yahoo sent him by true davenport thank you drew davenport forever
it's by yahoo answers user scott who asks
which restaurants in new york city serve wolf meat
i'm justin mcgroy i'm travis mcgroy i'm griffin mcgroy
this has been my brother my brother may kiss your dad square on the lips
maximum fun.org comedy and culture artist owned listener supported
i'm cameron esposito i'm ria butcher i am ricky carmona and we are the cast members what i don't
know podcastiness of wham bam pow that's an action sci-fi movie podcast you can find on
maximum fun.org or on itunes and what do we do news reviews and things you can use tons of things
we break it down so it can forever be broken hilarious jokes plus sometimes there's a dog
in the studio sometimes there's a dog here we'll see you in your earbuds